# Red-wine-quality-prediction
The red wine data set contains about 1600 data points with 11 quantitative variables. The output is a qualitatitve variable. I started by understanding the distribution of the output(quality) variable. There seemed to be non-uniform number of data points across different quality grades. The number of data points for quality grades 5 and 6 were huge while very few for quality grades 3,4, and 8.

With the above insights in mind about the quality, I moved to exploring each individual variable for different quality grades. As expected from the data set description, alcohol content, sulphates and citric acid seemed to have positive relation with quality. On the hand, volatile.acidity, pH and density seemed to show negative relationship with quality. One interesting discovery was that while fixed.acidity is positively related with variables that impacted quality positively and negatively related with variables that impacted quality negatively, the fixed.acidity variable itself didn’t have any discernible relationship with quality. Also, while all these variables showed visible relationship, there is huge overlap in data points for all these variables for different quality grades. Thus, brought down the correlation scores of any variables with quality.

Then, I proceeded to analyze the distribution of variables to understand the best range of values for each variable. The histogram plots with all quality grades showed good range. Then I went on to narrow down the ranges for quality grade 8 alone. However, due to lack of enough datapoints, the variable ranges looked uniform. Due to this, I decided to analyze grades 7 and 8 togehter as higher quality grades combined. This helped to establish a strong sense of good quality wine with enough data points. It also helped to narrow down ranges of each individual variables for good quality wine.

After the univariate analysis I proceeded with multivariate analysis of the dataset. While the above variables had high corelation with quality, they didn’t seem to be significant enough. However, few pairs of variable showed visible correlation by the scatter plots and correlation values. While I tried to analyze these pairs against quality, the pairs still had significant overlap of data points between different quality grades. Thus, while we established linear relation by visualizations, the model didn’t perform better.

It’d be good to get more data points for higher and lower quality of alcohol and then analyze the relationships. Also, each variable seems to have huge variance in the values for the same grade. This lead to huge overlap of data points for variables between different quality grades, thus, making it difficult to discern a good predictive model. A more granular labeling of quality will help establish a model better.
